Welcome back.
How was it.
Was it tough.
I hope you don't hate me for making it a little bit tough but it's going to be a good thing and remember
if you didn't get it right away it's not a big deal.
This is how we learn so let's make this a little bit bigger.
There you go.
And start off with our first step which is to grab these two arguments that we're going to have to use.
So how can we do this well the first thing we're going to do is let's say path which is the first path
of our images or let's just call it image folder in this image folder is going to use sis dot ARG V
which is the arguments and remember the arc V is this is the first one which is the python file.
This is the second.
And this is the third the way programming works.
We start with zero then one then two.
So we're going to say is our v one here and then for the second one which is the output folder it's
going to be says Dot ARG v 2.
So I always like testing what we've done because we want to make sure that our assumptions are correct.
So let's just print image folder and output folder and let's just run this file.
All right.
Look at that.
We get pokie decks and new it looks like this is working.
Awesome.
So we did the first desk.
What about the second one.
The second one is to check if this new folder exists.
If not we need to create it so we can use it in here to put images.
So again this sounds like an if statement so I'm going to say if and then check if the folder exists
so the way we can do that is using the OS module.
Now there's also the path lip module that you can use.
It's completely up to you now with the OS.
What we can do is say OS dot path dot exists and this is just going to check Hey does this exist.
So I'm going to say output folder.
Does this exist so let's just see what the output of this is.
So before I even do the if statement again I like testing my code.
So I'm going to say if OS path exists or sorry instead of if we want print let's run this and we get
false why is it false because it doesn't exist.
So in order for if statement to work we actually have to do this.
We have to say if not because we want to get the opposite.
Right.
So if this doesn't exist then we want to convert this to true so that we can do something within this
block which is to create the folder.
So how can we do that once again.
We use the OS module and we use the make does or make directory method and we just give it the directory
output folder.
So again let's test our code and if I run this look at that.
We have the new folder awesome and this way if I run this code again we see that we don't create another
folder because while we're just checking this and because this folder exists now we're not going to
duplicate and make another folder awesome.
So step by step we're making headway.
And again you may be asking yourself hold on Andre I never learned about make Ders How do I do that.
And again this is something that you just have to practice where you look up what the module does and
you google around and this is how you figure things out.
Nobody has things memorized as a program.
Don't hate me.
I'm just helping you practice that muscle all right.
Last part last part is to loop through the pokie tax grab each image and convert it and save it to the
new folder.
So how can we do that.
While we do a for loop and we'll say file name in.
And then again we'll use the OS dot list directory and this is going to be the items in the directory.
So with list there what we can do is just give it the image folder and then here we now have each of
these file path now in here.
I can say image equals image dot open.
And what should we do here.
Because remember we're going to open this every time.
Right.
And this file JPEG to PSG is outside of these folders.
So we somehow need to open these images at the PO codex.
But remember we want to use whatever the input is because folder pocket X might not be always the same.
So instead of grabbing the poke at X folder we'll just simply use an F string.
And within this f string I'm going to say we want the image folder which is going to give us the pocket
ax slash and the slash here because we assume that the user going to enter the slash.
We don't have to include it in here and then give another string which will be the file name which we
grab from you so we now open these images each one of them and then we can just convert them.
Right.
So let's convert them by saying image dot save.
And once again we're going to use an F string and do the same thing.
But this time for the output folder.
So I'm going to say output folder.
Give it the file name and then comma and then convert it to PSG and just for fun let's just say print.
All done.
To let us know that every time an image gets processed we print all done.
Now we're going to try and run this code.
There's actually a bug in this code that we're going to have to fix.
But let's just see what happens.
So I'm going to run this and there we go.
We have all done all done all done all done for images.
And it looks like it worked.
Right.
Let's have a look.
If I go to the new folder here it looks like these are still in j x that's strange.
Why would that be.
I thought we should be converting these right.
Well what if within here the save will do a dot PMG.
So again let's make this a little bit smaller so we'll say Save Us dot PMG in file format PMG.
If I run this all right.
Look at that.
We now have the images but oh we have got Jay back dot PDG.
What's going on here.
Well we have to clean our name right.
So what we need to do is when we grab the image open we need to remove the DOT JPEG from that image
so we can save it as a P and G.
So how can we do that.
And that's something that you may have had to Google because there's actually a useful tool that we
can use with the OS module that allows us to do this.
So what we can do is we can say clean name and we'll say OS dot path dot split text and what this is
going to do is it's going to split the text for us.
So let me show you.
I'm going to say file name and in here I'm not going to save anything I'm going to comment this out
and I just want to print clean name so let's just see what split text does.
I'm going to clear this and run again and I have an extra teen here.
It should be split text.
So let's say that again and look at that.
It gives me a tumble that splits the text between the name and the extension.
That's extremely useful.
So we just need to keep this first part and we don't care about this part so we can just access the
clean name by saying zero.
So the first item in the topple.
So now if I go back to this and instead of fondly we use the Clean name to save the image.
This should work.
So let me remove some of the comments here.
And another thing I want to do is I want to remove all these images because we don't need them anymore.
We ideally have just PMG images.
So I'm going to actually remove this new folder.
So let's say delete OK you can delete it.
There you go.
I'm going to save and let's see if this works now.
Let's run our command all done.
If we go back Hey check that out.
All our images are now PMG and you saw how fast that was.
We just created our first jetpack to PSG converter.
This file can now convert as long as you give it a folder with you can give it a hundreds of images
thousands of images of JPEG and it's going to convert them to PMG if you want you can even resize them
you can even add image filters to them and we're able to do that all with a few lines of code of Python
and some useful libraries very very cool.
Now we're just scratching the surface here but you're starting to see the power of Python.
We have a problem and this problem can be solved with Python and it's libraries.
And by just doing a bit of googling a little trial and error and debugging our code we just made something
that could potentially save us a lot of time instead of doing this manually.
Good job.
If you've gotten this far this is our first image processing project.
I hope you're excited.
There's still lots more to cover.
But give yourself a pat on the back and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.